# comp-vision
A repository for computer vision and learning the different machine-learning frameworks that composite them

A history of computer vision:
1) Computer vision originally started from the evolutionary disciplinary of vision in animals, hundreds of millions of years ago. This discplinary allows us to adapt our focus of vision, and allows us to gather data using our eyes, which is currently the most widely used way of gathering data that humans have right now.
2) This thought of vision led to the usage of cameras, which started with the pinhole camera and then evolved into the smartphones that we have today. Since well over 80% of all data online is kept in the form of video and picture data, it is essential that we learn how to study computer vision and learn how to manage what comes out of computer vision.
3) The first well known form of studying computer vision was titled "The Summer Vision Project", a MIT project in 1966 in which they studied the properties of images, and tried to dissect the way that images were formed.
4) In the book "Vision" by David Marr, he describes the simplest form of computer vision that he theorized in the 1970s. First, create a primal sketch of an input image, with crossings, blobs, edges, lines, groups, curves, and boundaries. Then, create a 2.5-D sketch from that, creating local surface orientation and discontinuities in depth and in surface orientation. Finally, create 3-D models hierarchically organized in terms of surface and volumetric primitives.
5) All the above were very ambitious and audacious ideas regarding computer vision. Instead, a better idea was to try and create a Normalized Cut (Shi & Malik, 1997), trying to recreate a picture as a group of pixels and extracting pixels. This is called image segmentation, and was a very infleuntial way of image detection. Similarly, when Face Detection came out (Viola & Jones, 2001), Computer Vision started to gain momentum. 
6) Another paper, "Spatial Pyramid Matching" (Lazebrik, Schmid & Ponce, 2006), theorized that there are certain features and waves that allow us to identify the type of scene an image is trying to show. For instance, if you have a kitchen scene, something like a refridgerator could help identify it as a kitchen.
7) Two of the most influeintial object challenges/datasets were ImageNet and PASCAL Visual Object Challenge. These datasets included multiple different object categories, and in order to get a higher score or accuracy, groups were challenged to develop algorithms to test against the testing set and see how accurate they were. In particular, ImageNet has 22k categories and over 14M images, in order to not overfit and help the overall generalization of computer vision. This is one of the first examples of "big data".
8) One of the biggest ways that computer vision accelerated was due to the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), which is now well known as deep learning. 

In order to start this project, let's use the CS231n course by Stanford and complete it's assignemnts, along with a final computer vision project that we do ourselves